The spin-bit should be some times disabled (#1931)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-spin-exp.md

delay between a spin edge observed in the upstream direction and that observed
in the downstream direction, and vice versa.

> # Disabling the spin bit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Disabling the Spin Bit
```

> Implementation SHOULD allow users to disable the spin-bit either globally,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementations SHOULD allow users to disable the spin bit either globally,
```

> Implementations SHOULD allow users to disable the spin bit either globally,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Implementations SHOULD allow users to disable the spin bit either globally
```

> or on a per-connection basis. Even when the spin-bit is not disabled by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or on a per-connection basis. Even when the spin bit is not disabled by
```

> the user, implementations SHOULD disable the spin-bit on a randomly chosen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the user, implementations SHOULD disable the spin bit on a randomly chosen
```

> fraction of connections. The random process SHOULD be designed so that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fraction of connections.  The selection process should be designed such that
```

> on average the spin-bit is disabled for at least 1/8th of the connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on average the spin bit is disabled for at least 1/8th of the connections.
```

> When the spin-bit is disabled, peers MUST set the spin bit value to zero,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the spin bit is disabled, endpoints MUST set the spin bit value to zero,
```

Any sense in permitting different forms of disabling?  I mean, there are other ways to erode the signal.  Fixed to zero, fixed to one, random, alternating values on every packet.  I wouldn't prohibit any (or all) of these techniques from being used.

Reviewer: I would rather say that the endpoint can set the value to any value then.  Providing a concrete suggestion means that anyone who diverges from that suggestion will stick out.  Not providing a concrete suggestion means that you might end up with the choice of method being used to identify an implementation, but that's probably a lost cause.

Reviewer 3: For greasing it might be (slightly) better to just use random values for this bit, otherwise middleboxes might learn that this bit is either 0 all the time or contains a valid spin bit.

Author: In order of complexity, I can see:

1) Always zero. Simple, people won't mess up.
2) Pick either 0 or 1 randomly at the beginning of the connection. Simple enough, somewhat better than always zero for preventing ossification.
3) Pick a random value each time. I don't like that too much. Implementation will mess up and generate a fingerprint.

I could specify flip a coin at the beginning of each connection if that's what you want.

Reviewer 3: In New York we discussed the proposal to grease whatever bits are left in the first octet by just encrypting 0s. I assumed that peers opting out of the spin bit would use the same algorithm they use for greasing the other bits.

Author: @marten-seemann Yes, encryption is better than just randomization, especially if we specify it completely so there are no differences between implementations.

Reviewer: You can't encrypt using the same technique because the value you choose will be input to the packet protection AEAD and so might alter the header encryption sampling.  If the intent is to appear random, a CSPRNG would be fine.  If the value can be predicted, then you risk undoing packet number encryption, promoting linkability, or something worse.

{{PAM-RTT}} that RTT measurements do not provide more information for
geolocation than is available in the most basic, freely-available IP address
based location databases. The risk of exposure of per-flow network RTT to
on-path devices is in most cases negligible.

There is however an exception, when parts of the path from client to server
are hidden from observers. An example would be a server accessed through a
proxy. The spin bit allows for measurement of the end-to-end

> RTT, and will thus enable adversaries near the client to discover that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RTT, and will thus enable adversaries near the endpoint to discover that
```

> the connection does not terminate at the visible destination address, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the connection does not terminate at the visible destination address.
```

> that the client is probably accessing a hidden server through a proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Clients that want to hide their use of a proxy or a relay will want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Endpoints that want to hide their use of a proxy or a relay will want to
```

I don't think that we can assume that it is only clients that will be affected by this.

> disable the spin bit. However, if only privacy sensitive clients ever

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
disable the spin bit. However, if only privacy-sensitive clients ever
```

disabled the spin bit, they would stick out. The probabilistic disabling

> behavior explained in {#disabling-the-spin-bit} ensures that other clients

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behavior explained in {{disabling-the-spin-bit}} ensures that other endpoints
```

> will also disabling the spin bit some of the time, thus hiding the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will also disable the spin bit some of the time, thus hiding the
```

> privacy sensitive clients in a large anonymity set. It also provides

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
privacy-sensitive clients in a large anonymity set. It also provides
```

{{PAM-RTT}} that RTT measurements do not provide more information for
geolocation than is available in the most basic, freely-available IP address
based location databases. The risk of exposure of per-flow network RTT to
on-path devices is in most cases negligible.

There is however an exception, when parts of the path from client to server
are hidden from observers. An example would be a server accessed through a
proxy. The spin bit allows for measurement of the end-to-end
RTT, and will thus enable adversaries near the endpoint to discover that
the connection does not terminate at the visible destination address.

Endpoints that want to hide their use of a proxy or a relay will want to

> disable the spin bit. However, if only privacy sensitive clients or servers ever

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
disable the spin bit. However, if only privacy-sensitive clients or servers ever
```

disabled the spin bit, they would stick out. The probabilistic disabling
behavior explained in {#disabling-the-spin-bit} ensures that other endpoints
will also disable the spin bit some of the time, thus hiding the

> privacy sensitive endpoints in a large anonymity set. It also provides

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
privacy-sensitive endpoints in a large anonymity set. It also provides
```
